# docs

## build_tree  

#### Structures

##### `struct leetcode::tree_node`

A node of a binary tree, whose members: 

+ `int val`: The value it stores. 

+ `tree_node* left`: The pointer to the left child. 

+ `tree_node* right`: The pointer to the right child. 

+ `explicit constexpr tree_node(int val, tree_node* left, tree_node* right) noexcept`: Constructor. 

  Parameters: 

  + `val`: The initial value of the member `val`.  
  + `left`: The initial value of the member `left`.  
  + `right`: The initial value of the member `right`.  

#### Functions

##### `leetcode::build_tree`

`inline tree_node* leetcode::build_tree(std::vector<std::optional<int>> input)`: 

+ Description

  To build the binary tree according to the description of the binary tree to build. 

+ Parameters

  + `input`: A list of `std::optional<int>` (stores as `std::vector`) which can be generated by the function [leetcode::get_nodes](#user-content-leetcode::get_nodes) or [`leetcode::get_nodes_by_regex`](#user-content-leetcode::get_nodes_by_regex) or [leetcode::get_nodes_by_regex](#user-content-leetcode::get_nodes_by_regex). 

+ Return value  

  A binary tree, whose nodes are allocated by `operator new`.  

##### `leetcode::destroy_tree`

`inline void destroy_tree(tree_node*& head)`: 

+ Description

  Destroy a binary tree. 

+ Parameters
  + `head`: The reference to a tree to delete, whose nodes should be allocated by `operator new`.  

##### `leetcode::get_nodes`

`inline std::vector<std::optional<int>> get_nodes(const std::string& input)`: 

+ Discription

  To transform a string of an array that represents a binary tree as an input on LeetCode to a list of values of tree-nodes. If the string is illegal, it will throw `std::invalid_argument` exception.  

+ Parameters

  + `const std::string& input`: A constant reference to a string to describe the binary tree. The string should begin with '[' and end with ']', and it should use ',' to separate values of nodes, and 'null' to indecate that it has no child at this position. And the blanks in the string will be ignored.  

+ Return value  

  A list (`std::vector<std::optional<int>>`) to store the values of nodes. If there is indeed a node, the element will be the value of it, otherwise, the value is `std::nullopt`.  

+ Example  

  For example, if the argument is `"[ 1, 2, null, 3, 4, null, 5, 6, 7, 8, null, null, 9, null, 10 ]"`, the return value will be `{ 1, 2, std::nullopt, 3, 4, std::nullopt, 5, 6, 7, 8, std::nullopt, std::nullopt, 9, std::nullopt, 10 }`. 

##### `leetcode::get_nodes_by_regex`

`inline std::vector<std::optional<int>> get_nodes_by_regex(const std::string& input)`: 

+ Discription

  It is the same as the function [`leetcode::get_nodes`](#user-content-leetcode::get_nodes), except that this function is implemeted with `std::regex`. Generally, using this function takes more compile time than the other.  

